**CP:02**


Submitted by : **T07 Gnosis**

- Bhavan Bhatt(202311021)
- Pratham Patel(202311022)
- Nishit Munjani (202311026)
- Viraj Prajapati (202311069)

**Dataset :** 

The dataset allotted to us can be found [here](https://datarepo.eng.ucsd.edu/mcauley_group/gdrive/googlelocal/). It had mainly two files named meta and review. Review file contained 1.1M reviews provided by users to businesses in the state of North Dakota whereas another file contained information about businesses that were being reviewed by other people. Total there are 2.93,523 unique users and 11,987 unique businesses. 

Reviews data contain the following columns: user\_id - ID of the reviewer name - name of the reviewer time - time of the review (unix time) rating - rating of the business text - text of the review pics - pictures of the review resp - business response to the review including unix time and text of the response gmap\_id - ID of the business

Metadata contains the following columns: name - name of the business address - address of the business gmap\_id - ID of the business description - description of the business latitude - latitude of the business longitude - longitude of the business category - category of the business avg\_rating - average rating of the business num\_of\_reviews - number of reviews price - price of the business hours - open hours MISC - MISC information state - the current status of the business (e.g., permanently closed) relative\_results - relative businesses recommended by Google url - URL of the business.

**Data Preprocessing and Recommendation Techniques :** 

For the purposes of EDA we use groupby() on user\_id in review and merge both the dataset as well. We have built item-item based filtering and user-user based and Matrix Factorization techniques as well. For the purpose of user-user we have used K-Nearest Neighbor and we have used SVD++ & SVD in Matrix Factorization. In order to successfully create a web application we have used hybrid recommender which takes item-item collaborative filtering with cosine similarity. In order to find word embeddings in item-item we have also tried to implement BERT from hugging face transformers library but the results were not promising so we stick with TF-IDF vectorizer.

**Results :**

|Model|RMSE|MAE|
| :- | :- | :- |
|SVD++ (MF)|0\.92|0\.64|
|SVD|0\.92|0\.66|
|KNN (User-User)|0\.96|0\.67|



**References :**

[Surprise Documentation](https://surprise.readthedocs.io/en/stable/)

[Matrix Factorization](https://towardsdatascience.com/recommendation-system-matrix-factorization-d61978660b4b)

[Collaborative Filtering](https://towardsdatascience.com/intro-to-recommender-system-collaborative-filtering-64a238194a26)

[Streamlit](https://docs.streamlit.io/)[ ](https://docs.streamlit.io/)

[Streamlit_Folium](https://folium.streamlit.app/)






